---
layout: post
title:  "/Documents/dojo0.2_enumeration"
name: dojo0.2_enumeration.md
author: bhero
time: "01:08"
description: "Setting up a VirtualBox Lab"
categories: Red_Team_Dojos0
---

# Read Team Dojos 0: Recon Phase

In this Dojo we are going to look at enumerating the Bad Store VM we configured in the [previous tutorial](dojo0.1-Lab-Setup.html). In order to better understand the process we will be using a series of command line tools as well as our browser to see what we can discover about our target.

> Remember don't do this stuff on systems unless you own them or have written permission to engage!

## Pre-engagement

It is important to define scope for an assessment, otherwise you can go too far and risk damage to the target and potentially cause an outage, which costs your client money and can potentially lead to criminal prosecution. Therefore in the real world we would definitely request a scope of work as well as a clearly defined area to operate. However as I own this instance I can do with it as I please. Over the next few posts I'm going to simulate a full on black box impact assessment on Bad Store. This means I am going to attempt to get full root access on the system, as root I have full control of the victim and can be considered to have demonstrated full compromise on the box.

Because we know the IP address (192.168.56.101) there is no need for network recon, at this stage we know where our target will be, thus we can get on with the assessment.

## Recon

After a bit of poking around on the site, we can see that BadStore is a web server hosting an online store that sells all kinds of magical items. Typically we would dig a little deeper into the functions of the site for a quick win, but in the interests of learning some tools were going to dive straight into assertive (active) testing mode.

First we want to paint a picture of what services are running on the victim. To do this we perform a port scan on the target. At this point most people break out nmap. Now nmap is great, it is the swiss army knife of tools at this stage and we are going to get to it in a bit but nmap is a tactical solution and _can_ be a little slow. What I like to do when I need to shotgun a quick scan of open ports is to use nc (netcat).

We want to determine what ports are open using nc:

```bash
# zero-I/O mode with some verbosity, ip address, port range
nc -zv 192.168.56.101 1-65535
```
after a few seconds we get:
``` bash
192.168.56.101: inverse host lookup failed: Unknown host
(UNKNOWN) [192.168.56.101] 3306 (mysql) open
(UNKNOWN) [192.168.56.101] 443 (https) open
(UNKNOWN) [192.168.56.101] 80 (http) open
```

To get the same scan results with nmap as a non root user:
``` bash
sudo nmap 192.168.56.101 -p-
```
gives us
```
Starting Nmap 7.70 ( https://nmap.org ) at 2019-06-11 21:33 BST
Nmap scan report for 192.168.56.101
Host is up (0.00026s latency).
Not shown: 65532 closed ports
PORT     STATE SERVICE
80/tcp   open  http
443/tcp  open  https
3306/tcp open  mysql
MAC Address: 08:00:27:0D:44:1B (Oracle VirtualBox virtual NIC)

Nmap done: 1 IP address (1 host up) scanned in 2.32 seconds
```
As you can see nmap gives us only a little more information than nc, but not by much.
The information of most use right now is the ports we discovered: 80,443 &amp; 3306.

> In this case nmap it is really fast. Can you guess why? It's because the 'network' connection in this case is simulated on hardware. If you were to try this on a regular network you'd likely see nmap take a lot longer.


## Triage 101

Armed with this information we want to do a little bit of analysis. In fact this is the most important part of the assessment, as you discover more information about the target you want to try to paint a bigger picture of the box's story. Working out the story of a box is often key to beating it. So what can we determine from our rudimentary scans?

__Ports 80 & 443 Open:__ The system is a web server, these ports are nearly always used for hosting web content

__Port 3306 Open:__ It is also a MySQL database server, port 3306 is typical of mysql dB

From these two observations from our rudimentary scans (before we've even looked at the website) I can make an educated guess to the tech stack of this system.
The combination of webserver and mysql suggests one of a few combinations but typically Linux, Apache, MySQL & Php (Perl) (LAMP(P)) or Windows, Apache, MySQL & Php (WAMP) fit this profile.

At this stage the OS isn't important, we just want to gather more information about the system.
Before we start blasting the sight again, let’s do a quick grab of the headers on the web index:

```bash
curl -I 192.168.56.101
```

gives us:

``` bash
HTTP/1.1 200 OK # healthy http response, pag is there
Date: Wed, 11 Jun 2018 20:13:27 GMT #timestamp of request
Server: Apache/1.3.28 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.8.15 OpenSSL/0.9.7c #server tech stack info
Last-Modified: Sun, 14 May 2006 21:16:23 GMT # last time page was edited
ETag: "14d-dff-44679e27" # Optional flag, used for caching
Accept-Ranges: bytes # The unit in which ranges are specified, the ranges are the part of a document that the server should return, bytes is default
Content-Length: 3583 # content size (in bytes) returned from the page
Content-Type: text/html # the media type of the page, standard webpage here
X-Pad: avoid browser bug # this is a 'hack' fix developed for old-school netscape browser compatibility.
```

Looks like a Linux/Unix box from the __Server__ Header, quick google of the release date for Apache 1.3.28, shows it was released on 18th July 2003. A cursory glance at the __Last-Modified__ date shows 2006, chances are the site's tech stack hasn't seen an update for a while.  

## Conclusion
- TODO

## Next Time
- TODO


